There are various ways in which you can define an ID of entity.

You can annnotate the id field of your entity with @generatedValue. This annotation specificaly tells hibernate that, this value is to be generated.

How this value will be generated is specified by strategy and generator.

```
@Id
@GeneratedValue(generator="increment")
@GenericGenerator(name="increment", strategy = "increment") 
Long id;
```

In above example, name “increment“ defines the generator with strategy as “increment“. This generator is referred from generatedValue annotation. The `generator` element of the `@GeneratedValue` annotation denotes the name of the primary key generator.

**@GenericGenerator is used to map a user defined sequence generator with your hibernate session**. You can also define a user defined sequence generator like this.

`@SequenceGenerator(name="honeySequence",sequenceName="HONEY_SEQ")`

There are four generation strategies available out of the box

**AUTO**

Automatically defines generator based on type of the ID.For numeric values, the generation is based on a sequence or table generator, while _UUID_ values will use the _UUIDGenerator_.

```
@Id
@GeneratedValue
private long studentId;

// ...
```

**IDENTITY**

This type of generation relies on the _IdentityGenerator_, which expects values generated by an _identity_ column in the database. This means they are auto-incremented.To use this generation type, we only need to set the _strategy_ parameter.

Identity increment happens out side of current transaction, so roll back discards the Identity value entirely.

Identity generation mechanism is very efficient, as it uses light weight locking , as opposed to heavy weight transactional locking.

Down side is, we cannot know the new id value before the the execution of insert statement.

Hiberanate batch updates are not supported with this type. This is because hibernate generates ids separately than the actual row insertion. Since id generation is clubbed with actual row insertion in this case, that is why batch updates are not supported.

```
@Id
@GeneratedValue (strategy = GenerationType.IDENTITY)
private long studentId;

// ...
```

**SEQUENCE**

This generator uses sequences if our database supports them. It switches to table generation if they aren't supported.

In order to customize the sequence name, we can use the _@GenericGenerator_ annotation with _SequenceStyleGenerator strategy_.

This is recommended aproach. IDs are unique per sequence.

Very efficient since, DB internal lightweight locking is used.

Hibernate batch updates are supported.

But not all databases provide out of the box sequences, so hibernate has to resort to table id generation.

Same sequence can be used in multiple columns/tables.

Id value is know prior to actual row insert.

Application can use incremental steps of id geneation to improve perormance. Here sequence increments in stpes of 10 , 20 or 50. Application then , can use these 50 ids , thereby reducing calls to db for id generation.

Here id generation is decoupled from actual data insert, so hibernate can leverage batch updates.

```
@Entity
public class User {
    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(generator = "sequence-generator")
    @GenericGenerator(
      name = "sequence-generator",
      strategy = "org.hibernate.id.enhanced.SequenceStyleGenerator",
      parameters = {
        @Parameter(name = "sequence_name", value = "user_sequence"),
        @Parameter(name = "initial_value", value = "4"),
        @Parameter(name = "increment_size", value = "1")
        }
    )
    private long userId;
    
    // ...
}
```

**TABLE**

The _TableGenerator_ uses an underlying database table that holds segments of identifier generation values.

This is database indeendant approach, but comes with performance tradeoff.

While IDENTITY and SEQUENCES are transaction-less, using a database table mandates [ACID](https://vladmihalcea.com/a-beginners-guide-to-acid-and-database-transactions/ "https://vladmihalcea.com/a-beginners-guide-to-acid-and-database-transactions/"), for synchronizing multiple concurrent id generation requests.

This is made possible by using row-level locking which comes at a higher cost than IDENTITY or SEQUENCE generators.

This id generation happens within current transaction, meaning to flush the id , current transaction shouls commit or rollback. This can hurt the overall DB performance , because no other transaction can request for id unless first transaction finishes.

To get better performance , a separate tranaction is used just to increment the id. This transaction lock can be relesed as soon as id value is incremented.

```
@Entity
public class Department {
    @Id
    @GeneratedValue(strategy = GenerationType.TABLE, 
      generator = "table-generator")
    @TableGenerator(name = "table-generator", 
      table = "dep_ids", 
      pkColumnName = "seq_id", 
      valueColumnName = "seq_value")
    private long depId;

    // ...
}
```

**IMP Points regarding the generators**

identity generator allows an INTEGER or BIGINT column to be auto incremented on insertion operation.

Detailed reference here:

[How do Identity, Sequence, and Table (sequence-like) generators work in JPA and Hibernate - Vlad Mihalcea](https://vladmihalcea.com/hibernate-identity-sequence-and-table-sequence-generator/#:~:text=The%20IDENTITY%20generator%20allows%20an,\(value%20gaps%20may%20happen\).)